Update IPC pages (#1949)
filecoin-project/filecoin-docs: content/en/basics/interplanetary-consensus/hierarchical-consensus/index.md

---
title: "Hierarchical consensus"

> description: "Our solution is different from traditional sharding designs, which explicitly divide the network's state. We use the concept of subnets that can be created on demand to manage new states.."

Author: Question: is the description field used for something other than metadata?

> description: "Our solution is different from traditional sharding designs, which explicitly divide the network's state. We use the concept of subnets that can be created on demand to manage new states.."

Author: ```suggestion
description: "Traditional sharding designs explicitly divide the network's state. In Interplanetary consensus, subnets can be created on demand to manage new states. This page describes hierarchical consensus in detail. "
```

see below for why hc -> ipc

Question: is the description field used for something other than metadata?

> lead: "Our solution is different from traditional sharding designs, which explicitly divide the network's state. We use the concept of subnets that can be created on demand to manage new states."

Author: ```suggestion
lead: "IPC subnets are organized as a tree and periodically checkpoint their state onto their parent in order to leverage its security."
```

I feel like we're wasting the highly visible lead by not including any information. Most pages in the docs have at least a minimal explanation of what to expect. Would something like this make sense? Difference vs. current is that it's a standalone one-line summary vs just running into the body.

Also, I'd prefer not to further emphasise the wording "hierarchical consensus" here as it's a bit charged, and it's the old name we moved away from. IPC is factually hierarchical, hence the page title, but we avoid using it as a name.

draft: false
images: []
type: docs
menu:
  basics:
    parent: "basics-interplanetary-consensus"
    identifier: "ipc-hierarchical-consensus"
weight: 110
toc: true
---

> These subnets are organized in a hierarchy, each subnet have its own consensus instance, cryptoeconomic rules, and even agreement algorithm.  This increases the network's capacity and allows for new applications with different requirements.
> 
> Additionally, subnets periodically save their state by checkpointing it with their parent network, and are also able to interact with other subnets by means of cross-net transactions. IPC subnets can resemble different L2 platforms, such as an optimistic or ZK-rollup, or a side-chain with a native communication bridge.
> 
> A full overview of the architecture can be found in the [IPC Design Reference](https://github.com/consensus-shipyard/IPC-design-reference-spec/raw/main/main.pdf).

Author: ```suggestion
## Overview

In IPC, subnets are organized in a hierarchy, with each subnet defining its own consensus instance, cryptoeconomic rules, and agreement algorithm. This design increases the network's capacity and accomodates new applications with varying consensus requirements.

Subnets periodically save their state by checkpointing it with their parent network, and are also able to interact with other subnets via cross-net transactions. IPC subnets can resemble other L2 platforms, such as [optimistic rollups](https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/scaling/optimistic-rollups/), [ZK rollups](https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/scaling/zk-rollups/), or a side-chain with a native communication bridge.

A full overview of the architecture can be found in the [IPC Design Reference](https://github.com/consensus-shipyard/IPC-design-reference-spec/raw/main/main.pdf).
```

It's your suggestion with a single tweak, which is the same as above:

## IPC Agent

The IPC Agent is the entry point to interacting with IPC. It is a client application that provides a simple and easy-to-use interface to interact with IPC as a user and run all the processes required for the operation of a subnet. The agent acts as an orchestrator, connecting to a number of blockchain nodes, one in each relevant subnet, and handles the entire IPC workflow, from subnet creation, cross-net message passing, and checkpointing.

More information on the IPC Agent, as well as comprehensive documentation, can be found on [GitHub](https://github.com/consensus-shipyard/ipc-agent).

## IPC Actors

IPC relies on two actors, the IPC Subnet Actor (ISA) and the IPC Gateway Actor (IGA), which are instantiated in each subnet and provide a number of convenience and governance functions. 

> The IGA is an actor that contains all IPC-related information and logic associated with a subnet that needs to be replicated in the subnet itself. The ISA is the IGA’s parent-side counterpart, i.e., it is deployed in a subnet’s parent and containing all the data and logic associated with the particular child subnet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The IGA is an actor that contains all IPC-related information and logic associated with a subnet that needs to be replicated in the subnet itself. The ISA is the IGA’s parent-side counterpart; that is, it is deployed to a subnet’s parent and contains all data and logic associated with the particular child subnet.
```

> The [actors](https://github.com/consensus-shipyard/ipc-actors) are currently implemented in Rust and provided as built-in wasm actors in [Spacenet]({{< relref "networks/spacenet/details">}}). We are currently working on an Solidity implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [actors](https://github.com/consensus-shipyard/ipc-actors) are currently implemented in Rust and provided as built-in WASM actors in [Spacenet]({{< relref "networks/spacenet/details">}}). We are currently working on a Solidity implementation.
```

Author: I don't really have a preference and am fine with changing to WASM, but the official formatting is neither of ours but actually `Wasm` (see https://webassembly.org/)

Author: ```suggestion
The [actors](https://github.com/consensus-shipyard/ipc-actors) are currently implemented in Rust and provided as built-in Wasm actors in [Spacenet]({{< relref "networks/spacenet/details">}}). We are currently working on a Solidity implementation.
```
I don't really have a preference and am fine with changing to WASM, but the official formatting is neither of ours but actually Wasm (see [webassembly.org](https://webassembly.org/))

## Eudico

Eudico is a modularized implementation of [Lotus]({{< relref "nodes/implementations/lotus">}}) itself an implementation of the Filecoin Distributed Storage Network. It is designed with the flexibility to support distinct use cases, and, particularly relevant to IPC, the ability to load different consensus protocols. 

In our architecture, Eudico is used as the blockchain node. One instance of Eudico is deployed for each subnet, as well as one for interaction with the Filecoin root. 

> The Eudico node is available on [GitHub](https://github.com/filecoin-project/lotus).

Reviewer: From https://github.com/filecoin-project/eudico, not clear if this is still relevant? Or, this should be reworded to reflect Eudico archival

Author: ```suggestion
## Eudico

Eudico is a modularized implementation of [Lotus]({{< relref "nodes/implementations/lotus">}}), itself an implementation of the Filecoin Distributed Storage Network. It is designed with the flexibility to support distinct use cases, and, particularly relevant to IPC, the ability to load different consensus protocols. 

In our architecture, Eudico is used as the blockchain node. One instance of Eudico is deployed for each subnet, as well as one for interaction with the Filecoin root. 

The Eudico node is available on [GitHub](https://github.com/consensus-shipyard/lotus).
```

Sorry, that was a bad link on my part. We archived the eudico repo but continue to develop Eudico under consensus-shipyard/lotus

Author: I'll commit the change and resolve, as I think it addresses your concern about being deprecated.
